1. Run the PM N-body simulation for the default Lambda CDM cosmology parameters in a periodic grid 512^3 with 0.07 Mpc grid spacing and 256^3 particles. Generate outputs at redshifts = 8, 5, 3, 1.
2. Run the FoF halo finder over these N-body particle data and generate halo catalogues for each of these redshifts.
3. Next, using the above outputs generate dark matter (DM) and halo density fields on the grids of sizes 64^3 and 128^3. Plot the same slice of these fields and demonstrate the evolution of DM distribution and structures (halos). Do these fields look different when you calculate their density in two different grid resolutions? If so, why?
4. Calculate the power spectrum of both the DM and the halo density fields (for both resolutions). While calculating the P(k), please make sure that you bin the available k range in equispaced bins in log(k). Can you guess the reason for choosing a log-binning of the k? Plot the P(k)s and demonstrate their redshift evolution. To check how the P(k) behaves when one changes the bin width, please calculate P(k) for 10 and 5 k-bins, in both cases, the bins should be equispaced in log(k) space. You can write your own code for estimation of the P(k) or you can use the power spectrum estimation code available within the packages shared with you.
5. Calculate the ‘halo bias’ by calculating the ratio b(k) = P_halo(k)/P_DM(k). Plot them as functions of k. Plot b(k)s for all redshifts as a function of k. Do you see any redshift evolution in this ratio? Do you expect it to be a constant with respect to k?
6. Smooth the DM and halo density fields calculated on the 128^3 grid with a spherical filter (defined in real space) of radii = 10, 20 and 30 grid units. You can write your own smoothing code. Plot the smooth fields. Calculate their P(k)s. Plot and compare them with P(k) of the unsmooth fields. Calculate and plot the b(k)s of these smooth field P(k)s. Do you see any difference in the behaviour compared to the b(k)s estimated from the unsmoothed fields?
7. Repeat exercises 1 to 6 for a cosmological model with \Omega_m0 = 0.01 and \Omega_Lambda = 0.99, with the rest of the cosmological parameters the same as you have initially considered. What differences do you see?
